# CityWatch
 City Watch is an iOS application that with the dual vision of connecting communities through a social network of reporting events as well as saving lives by acting as a more efficient means of signaling distress than calling the police. The app features an "emergency" button on every page that requires additional verification that it was the intended button to press, which eliminates risk of accidental distress calls. Once the user verifies that the threat is real, they are then given a menu of options to detail what type of situation they are in (medical condition, violent crisis, etc.) that enables them to send a signal to their nearby police station. This can be superior than simply dialing 911 as it delivers an approximate message without any need for talking, should the user be in a dangerous predicament, and also is more reliable than a phone line in times of large scale events such as natural disasters. Other uses of the app are for linking communities as they can submit reports they see around them (tree falling down and blocking a road, missing pet, etc.) or beneficial things they observe that they would want to share to others (pop-up stores, free food events, etc), along with a corresponding rating for the former. This means that the problems reported that are not of an emergency level will be assigned a numeric value from 1 to 10 representing its priority in calling city resources to address. The problems will be identified on a map of the nearby area along with a description, so others using the app can see the local reports and choose to avoid certain areas up to their own discretion. People submitting these complaints will be encouraged to rate their submissions accurately due to a five-star rating system that others can give to them based on their reliability. Obviously this won't affect them when they're in an emergency, as we don't want a "Boy Who Cried Wolf" scenario, but it may decrease the priority of non-emergencies reported by the user in the future. Should any false reporting of an emergency occur, the user will be directly linked to the police and will face similar repercussions to making a prank call, as wasting police time is a crime. In the near future, we definitely want to incorporate more social elements to this application as well as eliminate any possibility of fake users submitting fake information as a means of comedy or inflicting distress upon others.
